the guard a clot can be used not just
for feed eight events in Europe in other
places but also here in the United
States for United States Chess
Federation events which have a delay and
multiple time controls I'll use thirty
moves in ninety minutes as an example
for the first time control and the
second would be sixty minutes for the
rest of the game with a delay of five
seconds let's look at how to set that
first of all in the manual on page eight
I find preset number ten is very
suitable
it's called Bronstein tournament with
two phases that's preset number ten the
preset his number is shown here
increasing we cycle through the presets
to number ten press ENTER now you'll
find that we can use the setting buttons
and the enter to change the times this
is the seconds we won't change the
seconds at this point the minutes are
fine this is 90 minutes continue
pressing enter this is the delay that's
important we don't need a one minute
delay we want five seconds so pressing
the plus key enter now the other players
delay I'll increase that to five seconds
as well
pressing enter the second time control
notice these two tick marks that rhibs
represents the second time control or
the second phase forty minutes we'll
hold down the plus key to increase that
to sixty minutes the other players time
increase that to 60 minutes
press the Enter key again
the five-second delay we will add to the
second time control as well and the move
counter is shown down here now notice
how the we're in preset 10 but it's been
customized and this is ready to play if
the move counter did not show on your
clock its selected by holding down the
sound button notice how it's not shown
right now so I can turn the sound on and
hold it again to turn the move counter
on now when we play the clock the side
that is the player that whose turn it is
to move this will be blinking and notice
how in this Braunstein mode it
effectively works as a delay since when
you make your move you get the
five-second delay
added to your side for the next move
you're going to make and it's called a
non accumulating increment meaning if we
play quickly those 5 seconds will not
accumulate they will just increase to
the last time you have so it's
essentially a different way of
indicating displaying the delay
notice how the move moves are increasing
if we want to pause the clock we can
just level the buttons or press this in
the middle now notice how it's this
player's turn and that's indicated here
if we were to press this side to start
this clock it won't play because it
knows that this is the players whose
turn it is so you press this side and
again it starts counting so this is what
we just set was using preset 10 90
minutes maximum of 30 moves
and a second time control of sixty
minutes all with a five second delay so
as you can see this can be used for
tournaments that are both feed a an on
feed a USCF and you have a wide variety
of settings to choose from just remember
that the delay is not a is is displayed
as a Bronstein method delay meaning it's
added after you move versus the standard
delay which counts down before your move
essentially it's the same thing but it
is displayed differently
you